Question 1
The
hourglass
model for structuring effective business presentations suggests you should:

1 / 1 point

begin and end your presentation with motivating context


begin your presentation with your agenda and end with a summary of what you covered


begin your
presentation with motivating context and end with your business recommendation


begin your presentation with your agenda and end with a story

Correct
Correct!  The model resembles an hourglass because it suggests that you start your
presentation with the big picture, narrow in to some details, and then come
back out to the big picture again at the end of the presentation.  Many
people forget this last step, but it is very important, because the first and
last things you say are the things your audience is most likely to remember,
and are the things that are most likely to leave a lasting impact.    

2.
Question 2
Beginning your business
presentation in the middle of the plot of a motivational story can sometimes be
an effective way to lead into your business recommendation.

1 / 1 point

True


False

Correct
Correct!  Beginning your business presentation in the
middle of the plot of a motivational story can create a sense of momentum and expectation for what will come next,
which can sometimes be an effective way to lead into your business
recommendation.    

3.
Question 3
Business analysts are
required to storyboard their presentations before making slides.     

0 / 1 point

True


False

Incorrect
Incorrect. 
Based on my own experience, I strongly recommend that you storyboard
your presentations to clarify
the logic of your hypotheses and assertions, illustrate gaps in your logic,
streamline the slide-preparation process, and provide a mechanism for receiving
feedback and working with a team; however, storyboarding is not required in
most data analyst roles. Please refer to the video Storyboarding Your Presentation  for more information.

4.
Question 4
According to
the psychology literature, if the business recommendation you are going to make
in a business presentation is likely to be controversial, you should order the
stem of your presentation hourglass so that the:

1 / 1 point

most emotional story point is presented first.


least complicated story point is presented first.


least controversial point is presented first.


strongest story point is presented first.

Correct
Correct!  People are more likely to be persuaded by an argument
if you get them into a general feeling of agreement first, so starting with
your least controversial point will get your audience used to saying “yes”
before you present them with something to which they might want to say “no.”    

5.
Question 5
As a data analyst, you can avoid the logical fallacy of overgeneralization by:

1 / 1 point

insisting that you are given a very large data set to analyze.


selecting a small, unbiased sample.


ensuring the data you work with is a selected subset with a strong data story.


none of the above

Correct
You’re right!  None of these items can ensure that the effects you observe will generalize to all other types of data.

6.
Question 6
To test whether a certain advertising campaign would work, an analytics team sorts
their customer list from lowest to highest customer ID number, and then sends
their advertisement to the first 1000 customers on the list.  The rest of the customers did not receive any
advertisements that week.  When analyzing
the results of the campaign one week later, the analytics team realized that there
was a previously unknown pattern in the customer ID numbers: the lower the
customer number, the longer the person had been a customer.  Thus,
the customers who received the advertisement were the individuals who had been
customers with the company the longest. 
The analytics team decided the test was invalid and needed to be
repeated.  The reason for their decision
was that analyzing the results in their current form would result in the
following logical fallacy (or fallacies):

1 / 1 point

Over-generalization


Inferring causation from correlation


Lack of controls


All of the above


None of the above

Correct
Correct!  Although the team was correct to evaluate the causal power of the advertisement on purchasing using a test, the testing group used was systematically different from the control group used (the rest of the customers) in ways other than whether or not they received an advertisement.  All of the customers in the testing group would have been customers longer than the customers in the control group, so it would have been impossible to differentiate whether any observed differences in purchasing between the two groups were due to the advertisement, or due to how long customers had interacted with the company.

7.
Question 7
When two
variables are correlated, one variable does not cause the other variable. 

1 / 1 point

True


False

Correct
You’re right!  Although a correlation between two variables does not mean one variable must cause the other variable, it still permits the possibility that one variable causes the other.

8.
Question 8
When tests can’t be
run, which of the following can data analysts do to assess the degree of
confidence one should have in the nature of a correlation between two
variables? Choose all that apply.

1 / 1 point

Identify different but complementary ways to use the same data set to assess the causal relationship about which you are hypothesizing.

Correct
Correct! As we saw in the graphs of spurious correlations, just because a correlation is very strong, doesn’t mean that it will be observed again or represents a causal relationship.


Assess whether there are additional variables that can explain the relationship.

Correct
Correct! As we saw in the graphs of spurious correlations, just because a correlation is very strong, doesn’t mean that it will be observed again or represents a causal relationship.


Infer that if the observed effect is extremely large or obvious, it is likely real.


Attempt to replicate the effect by examining whether the correlation on which you are basing your business recommendation exists in other data sets or contexts.

Correct
Correct! As we saw in the graphs of spurious correlations, just because a correlation is very strong, doesn’t mean that it will be observed again or represents a causal relationship.

9.
Question 9
Which charts should you
NOT use often in business presentations? 
 Choose all that apply.

1 / 1 point

Pie charts that highlight 4 or fewer categories


Line charts


Bar charts


Scatter plots

Correct
Correct!  Bar charts and line charts are very effective, and pie charts can be effective when they display small numbers of categories.  Scatter plots are too complicated for general audiences, and 3D charts tend to be misleading.


3D charts

Correct
Correct!  Bar charts and line charts are very effective, and pie charts can be effective when they display small numbers of categories.  Scatter plots are too complicated for general audiences, and 3D charts tend to be misleading.

10.
Question 10
When you want to represent very detailed
and nuanced information about continuous variables, given humans’ ability to
perceive relative differences along different kinds of visual attributes, which
of the following attributes should you exploit in your visualizations?  Choose the best 2 options.

1 / 1 point

Color


Area


Length

Correct
 Humans are best at perceiving difference in length.


Position

Correct
Humans are best at perceiving difference in position.


Volume 

11.
Question 11
If you are in a situation
where you MUST use colorbars to represent detailed information about a continuous
variable, you should:

1 / 1 point

use colorbars that only have gradations from one color to a second color so that the audience isn’t distracted by excess color.


use a colorbar that color-blind people can perceive.


use colors that are very bright so that they can easily be detected.


use a gray scale that goes from black to white.

Correct
Correct!  Black to white scales tend to have more even transitions than do color scales, so what you perceive as 1 unit of change in color is more likely to represent 1 unit of physical distance along a grayscale colorbar than a multi-colored colorbar.

12.
Question 12
Which of the
following would be the two LEAST effective
changes you could make, to revise this graph so that it more effectively told a
story? Choose 2.


1 / 1 point

Take the borders off the bars

Correct
Although taking the border off the bars is a good idea for increasing the data-ink ratio, it will not help clarify a story much in this case because there is so much extra data in the visualization.


Change to gray the bars on which you don’t want to focus, and keep colored the bars on which you do want to focus.


Reduce the amount of data on the graph so that only the factors you wanted to highlight are on the graph


Add a text box to point out which bars you care about

Correct
 A text box could help a little, but your eyes still won’t be able to refrain from continuing to look at the other data.

13.
Question 13
Which of the following
reflect(s) the principles of maximizing the data-ink ratio?  Choose all that apply.

1 / 1 point

Including a bar at the bottom of the slide to indicate how far along you are in your presentation


Reducing the amount of text on the slide

Correct
Maximizing the data-ink ratio would lead to simplifying or completely removing non-essential scales and labels, and excluding any symbols that indicated how far along you were in a presentation because those symbols would not be related to the data, itself.


Making the borders of bars in a graph the same as the slide background

Correct
Maximizing the data-ink ratio would lead to simplifying or completely removing non-essential scales and labels, and excluding any symbols that indicated how far along you were in a presentation because those symbols would not be related to the data, itself.


Making the scales and labels of the graph easy to read

14.
Question 14
It’s a good idea to apply
the rule of thirds to: (Choose all that apply)

0 / 1 point

Transition slides

Correct
Data slides should display the data in the center of the slide and thus do not follow the rule of thirds.


Slides illustrating stories


Soft break slides

Correct
Data slides should display the data in the center of the slide and thus do not follow the rule of thirds.


Slides meant to catch your audience’s attention

Correct
Data slides should display the data in the center of the slide and thus do not follow the rule of thirds.


Slides containing data

You didn’t select all the correct answers
15.
Question 15
Effective presentation techniques include: 

1 / 1 point

keeping a physically open posture by keeping your arms away from the front of your body


facing your audience and looking at different people in the room


being natural in your movements


refraining from looking down or reading your slides.


all of the above

Correct
Correct!  All of these techniques will greatly improve how your presentation is received. 

16.
Question 16
A hospital was having problems with the amount of time
employees with direct care responsibilities were absent from work. Due to the
high levels of absenteeism, patient satisfaction
was declining, 20% of patient-related
work was not getting done, and 47% of non-patient work was not getting
done.  At the advice of a consulting
company, the hospital implemented a positive incentive system that would allow
all employees to convert up to 24 hours of unused sick time into additional pay or more vacation days in
order to reduce absenteeism.  After 6
months of implementing the program, the hospital analysts calculated that
absentee rates declined an average of 11.5 hours per employee, and concluded that
the program was successful in this company. 
Did the hospital analysts commit any logical fallacies when arriving at
their conclusion, and if so, which fallacy (or fallacies)?

1 / 1 point

Lack of controls


Overgeneralization


Inferring causation from correlation


None of the above


All of the above

Correct
 Correct!  Without a control
group who was not entered into the positive incentive system, it is impossible
to know whether the decrease in absenteeism was due to the change in policy or
due to other collections of unmeasured factors in the environment (like lower
overall sickness due to seasonal changes, for example).  The fallacy of overgeneralization was NOT committed because the analysts
concluded that the program worked in this company, and did not make claims
about whether or not the program would work in other places.  The fallacy of inferring causation from
correlation was NOT committed by the hospital analysts either, because they
never made an explicit claim about causation.   
